

...poetry’s “task of ‘turning noise into music’ is irreducibly political, a sustained resistance to commodified, ...generalised language and the appalling reductions of human possibility that this brings with it”—Jeremy Paxman

Miracles are not contrary to nature, but only contrary to what we know about nature.— St. Augustine

The great advantage of writing nonfiction is that it doesn't have to be plausible, it only has to be true.—-Sam Keane

Be prepared to contemplate a question he's [Boris Pasternak] asked contentiously by a friend when he wins the Nobel.
Whose life did his book improve? His own? Anyone else's? Was it worth the suffering he put Olga and his family through? Did the whole episode amount to anything?—Janet Maslin

If you want your children to be brilliant, read them fairy tales. If you want them to be geniuses, read them more fairy tales.—Albert Einstein

Something is profoundly wrong with the way we live today. For thirty years we have made a virtue out of the pursuit of material self-interest; indeed, this very pursuit now constitutes whatever remains of our sense of collective purpose. We know what things cost but have no idea what they are worth. We no longer ask of a judicial ruling or a legislative act: is it good? Is it fair? Is it just? Is it right? Will it help bring about a better society or a better world? Those used to be the political questions, even if they invited no easy answers. We must learn once again to pose them.—Tony Judt

We have entered an age of insecurity—economic insecurity, physical insecurity, political insecurity. The fact that we are largely unaware of this is small comfort. Few in 1914 predicted the utter collapse of their world and the economic and political catastrophes that followed. Insecurity breeds fear. And fear—fear of change, fear of decline, fear of strangers and an unfamiliar world—is corroding the trust and interdependence on which civil societies rest.—Tony Judt

Aberrations of the human mind are to a large extent due to the obsessional pursuit of some part-truth, treated as if it were a whole truth.— Arthur Koestler, The Ghost in the Machine

The evil that is in this world always comes of ignorance, and good intentions may do as much harm as malevolence, if they lack understanding. On the whole, men are more good than bad; that however isn't the real point. But they are more or less ignorant, and it is this that we call vice or virtue.—Albert Camus

Stories happen only to people who can tell them.—Dwight Garner

Wonder is the first of all the passions.—Rene Descartes

We know the truth, not only be the reason, but also be the heart.— Blaise Pascal

The heart has its reasons which reason knows not of.— Blaise Pascal

When one does not love too much, one does not love enough.— Blaise Pascal

Up where no overshadowing mountain stands, towards the great and the loftiest peak, a fiery longing draws me.—Petrarch c 1345

To have displeased evil and ignorant men is the sure sign of genius and virtue...— Petrarch

The youth of America is their oldest tradition.—Oscar Wilde

In the 3rd century b.c.e., the Taoist alchemist and sorcerer Xu Fu set sail to seek the elixir of life. He and his crew of 5000 — including 3000 children — left with high hopes and great expectations. They were never to return.—Naor Bar-Zeev in News England Journal of Medicine

What is the ultimate quantification of success? For me, it's not how much time you spend doing what you love. It's how little time you spend doing what you hate.—Why Most People Never Get What They Want by Benjamin Hardy in Better Marketing

What else is the help of medicine than love?—Paracelsus

Often the most obscure of beings hides a hidden god.—Gérard Nerval

When an old man dies, a library burns to the ground.—African Proverb

Before you sleep, read something that is exquisite and worth remembering.—Erasmus

Beauty is subjective. Planning is not.—Melissa Chu

Before J.R.R. Tolkien set out to write The Lord of the Rings trilogy, he sketched, drew layers of maps, and jotted pages of notes first. Planning out the details beforehand made the rest of the process much easier.—Melissa Chu

A hundred bad days made a hundred good stories. A hundred good stories made me interesting at parties.—The Band AJR

[Philosophy should] trample underfoot prejudice, tradition, antiquity, shared covenants, authority — in a word,
everything that controls the mind of the common herd.—Denis Diderot

Keep going. You are going to be fine and beautiful things will happen in time—Morgan Harper Nichols

With so much cynicism out there, it (art) is also an inherently optimistic act. That optimism is what moves me most in a work of literature.—Elliot Ackerman

If a piece of art succeeds — whether it's literature, film, painting, etc. — it causes the person experiencing that art also to feel something.—Elliot Ackerman

If we wait until we're ready, we'll be waiting for the rest of our lives.— Lemony Snicket, The Ersatz Elevator

The most important thing about the first sale is for the very first time in your life something written has value and proven value because somebody has given you money for the words that you've written, and that's terribly important, it's a tremendous boon to the ego, to your sense of self-reliance, to your feeling about your own talent.—Rod Serling

A basic 'must' for every writer: A simple solitude — physical and mental.—Rod Serling

Writing is a demanding profession and a selfish one. And because it is selfish and demanding, because it is compulsive and exacting, I didn't embrace it. I succumbed to it.—Rod Serling

The writer's role is to menace the public's conscience. He must have a position, a point of view. He must see the arts as a vehicle of social criticism, and he must focus on the issues of his time.—Rod Serling

If you need drugs to be a good writer, you are not a good writer—Rod Serling

Every writer is a frustrated actor who recites his lines in the hidden auditorium of his skull.—Rod Serling

It is one thing to study war, another to live a warrior's life.—graffito from the ceiling of 5Church restaurant in Atlanta

The past is a foreign country; they do things differently there.— L.P. Hartley

 [I changed her name  To protect the innocent,  I might have even lied  About the car.  This is just to say,  Sorry if I hurt you  Mary, if you're out there,  You know who you are. I'm sorry, Mary.—Marc Cohen]

Indolence is bliss. That's what we like to think.—Mark White

The Soviet system of propaganda and censorship existed not so much for the purpose of spreading a particular message as for the purpose of making learning impossible, replacing facts with mush, and handing the faceless state a monopoly on defining an ever-shifting reality.—Masha Gessen

Be kind, for everyone you meet is fighting a hard battle—Plato

You are killing me, fish, the old man thought. But you have a right to. Never have I seen a greater, or more beautiful, or a calmer or more noble thing than you, brother.— Ernest Hemingway The Old Man and the Sea

The only things intellectuals find hard to see are the facts that stare them in the face.—Bret Stephens

Only one thing a man has to do, and that's to die. All the rest is choice.—Roy Elton

When I'm in writing mode for a novel, I get up at 4:00 am and work for five to six hours. In the afternoon, I run for 10km or swim for 1500m (or do both), then I read a bit and listen to some music. I go to bed at 9:00 pm. I keep to this routine every day without variation. The repetition itself becomes the important thing; it's a form of mesmerism. I mesmerize myself to reach a deeper state of mind.—Haruki Murakami

Don't loaf and invite inspiration; light out after it with a club, and if you don't get it you will nonetheless get something that looks remarkably like it.—Jack London

George Bernard Shaw was enjoying a standing ovation when he joined the curtain call at one of his premieres. Someone in the balcony yelled a scathing cat-call. Shaw looked up at him and said, \;I agree with you. But what is our opinion against so many?\;—Tom Dale Keever

[...waiting] for someone to whisper across the ages and the miles, \;I was thinking of that too. It is what you thought. But listen to me: it may be less frightening than what you imagine. Follow me through this wood. It winds, and it is dark. But you are not alone.\;;—Mary Gordon

An old world disappears, another one is being formed, and within this I am trying to conceal some good seed or other that will have its springtime, even if it is somewhat delayed.—Pope John XXIII

A month or so ago I read an account of an event that took place in Atlanta earlier this year. During his trial for rape a man overpowered one of the courtroom guards, stole her gun, and killed three people. Escaping, he ended up in the home of a twenty-six-year-old woman, and took her hostage. While she was his prisoner, the woman read to him from the inspirational book The Purpose-Driven Life, by Rick Warren. The accused rapist saw the error of his ways and surrendered to the police. When this event became public, the book shot to No. 1 on the New York Times best-seller list. Ask yourself: can you imagine this happening if she had read to him from one of the great classics of moral fiction—from Middlemarch, or Jude the Obscure, or Moby-Dick, or War and Peace?;—Mary Gordon

...a novel can help eat into the cancer of greed.—Mary Gordon

The novel is uniquely qualified to provide some virtues: the virtues of compassion, openness, and attentiveness.;—Mary Gordon

Serious fiction is uniquely qualified to combat the sound bite. It says to us that the truth of human beings is often more complicated than we think.—Mary Gordon

[After his near-death experience] he had the sudden realization that if there was a meaning to life, none of them would know what it was.;—Rajeev Balsubramanym

Like all writers, he is a clueless person looking for a clue.—Zachary Lazar

Pain which cannot forget falls drop by drop upon the heart, until in our own despair, against our will, comes wisdom through the awful grace of God.—Aeschylus

I am old now, or at least, I am no longer young, and everything I see reminds me of something else I've seen, such that I see nothing for the first time. A bonny girl, her hair fiery-red, reminds me only of another hundred such lasses, and their mothers, and what they were as they grew, and what they looked like when they died. It is the curse of age, that all things are reflections of other things.—Neil Gaiman

Anybody who can do at sixty what he used to do at twenty, wasn't doing much when he was twenty.—Jimmy Carter

One day your life will flash before your eyes—make sure it's worth watching.—Motley Crue's Nikki Sixx

Truth is without doubt beautiful, but so are lies.—Ralph Waldo Emerson

My wife ran off with my best friend, and I still miss him.—Jimmy Carter's favorite country music lyric

Hannah Arendt said that in politics and history things only become irreversible when people recognise them as such. Because, in themselves, they are not irreversible. Donald Tusk

Love people, use things—unknown

[Never use a metaphor, simile or other figure of speech which you are used to seeing in print. Never use a long word where a short one will do. If it is possible to cut a word out, always cut it out. Never use the passive where you can use the active. Never use a foreign phrase, a scientific word or a jargon word if you can think of an everyday English equivalent. Break any of these rules sooner than say anything outright barbarous.—George Orwell]

Without community there is no liberation.—Audre Lorde

If the book we're reading doesn't wake us up with a blow to the head, what are we reading for?—Franz Kafka

But we need books that affect us like a disaster, that grieve us deeply... like being banished into forests far from everyone, like a suicide. A book must be the axe for the frozen sea within us.—Franz Kafka

Success is the ability to go from one failure to another with no loss of enthusiasm—Winston Churchill

I have never made but one prayer to God, a very short one: "O Lord, make my enemies ridiculous." And God granted it.—Voltaire

I do not know, I cannot guess, whether you are liable to be pained deeply by hard criticism and cold neglect, such as original writers like yourself are too often exposed to — or whether the love of Art is enough for you, and the exercise of Art the filling joy of your life.—Elizabeth Barrett Browning

Life can only be understood backward, but it must be lived forward.—Søren Kierkegaard

There must be a beginning of any great matter, but the continuing unto the end until it be thoroughly finished yields the true glory.— Sir Francis Drake

The light that burns twice as bright burns half as long - and you have burned so very, very brightly...—Original Blade Runner Script

Watching Shakespeare in the theater, you can grasp what tragedy means: Every possible solution is wrong. The dramatic hero does not have to choose between good and evil, but whether to make this mistake or that one.—Wolf Bierman

I don't think writers are sacred, but words are...If you look after them, they can build bridges across incomprehension and chaos.—Tom Stoppard

If you have a garden and a library, you have everything you need.—Marcus Tullius Cicero

Necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. It is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves.— William Pitt, Speech in the House of Commons November 18, 1783

I love those who yearn for the impossible.—Johann Wolfgang von Goethe

In art the best is good enough.—Johann Wolfgang von Goethe

Nobody knows anything. Not one person in the entire motion picture field knows for a certainty what's going to work. Every time out it's a guess — and, if you're lucky, an educated one.—Willliam Goldman

Your sorrows are wasted on you if you haven't learned to suffer.—Seneca

Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.—Arthur C. Clarke

The key to immortality is first living a life worth remembering.—Bruce Lee

Sweet are the uses of adversity which like a toad bears a precious jewel in his head.—William Shakespeare

Cavell's idea wasn't that whatever is true for you is objectively and completely true. It was that paying attention to what matters to you is a prerequisite of thinking seriously at all.—Obit of Stanley Cavell in NYT

A good question is never answered. It is not a bolt to be tightened into place but a seed to be planted and to bear more seed toward the hope of greening the landscape of the idea.— John Ciardi

The distinction between past, present, and future is only a stubbornly persistent delusion.—Albert Einstein

Too much of a good thing is wonderful.—Mae West

You can safely assume that you've created God in your own image when it turns out that God hates all the same people you do.—Anne Lamott

We are what we pretend to be.—Kurt Vonnegut

In the current of your life I was an eyelash drifting in a shipping lane...—Neko Case, Curse of the I-5 Corridor

If you do not change directions, you may end up where you are going.—Lao Tsu

Vegetarians are the enemy of everything good and decent in the human spirit, an affront to all I stand for, the pure enjoyment of food.—Anthony Bourdain

Vegetarians, and their Hezbollah-like splinter-faction, the vegans, are a persistent irritant to any chef worth a damn.—Anthony Bourdain

Winter doesn't kill them. Not yet. The blackest despair at the heart of them gets pressed to diamond.—Richard Powers, Overstory

I wished to dazzle in my very own way and to dazzle myself no less than anyone else. All you have to do is sit down and work!.—Philip Roth

Perhaps the roses really want to grow, the vision really intends to stay...—WH Auden

Age quod agis — Do well whatever you are doing—Latin motto Jerry Brown chose for the military school he created.

Love does not consist of gazing at each other, but in looking outward together in the same direction.—Antoine de Saint-Exupery

I cannot pretend to be neutral, but I try to be fair.—China Mieville

Writing is not an act of creation. It is an act of choice.—Nell Scovelle

What the American public wants is a tragedy with a happy ending.—William Dean Howells

Richard Jenkins: Well, there was a point in my career where I bored myself to death. I just [laughter] was like, if this is it, if I - I got to stop doing this because if I'm boring myself, God knows what the audience is thinking. You know, the - so you say - you know, what's that saying? You do what you do till you can't do it anymore, and then you do something else. And that's where I was as an actor. I just - I couldn't keep doing what I was doing....;

I walk on water, I ain't no Jesus. I walk on water, but only when it freezes.—Eminem lyric

Conscious reason can get you only so far when tribal emotions have been aroused, when existential fears rain down, when narcissistic impulses have been given free rein, when spiritual longings have nowhere healthy to go, when social trust has been devastated, when all the unconscious networks that make up 99 percent of our thinking are aflame and disordered.—David Brooks

Those who are governed by reason desire nothing for themselves which they do not also desire for the rest of humankind.—Baruch Spinoza

The philosopher Ruwen Ogien defended the freedom to offend as essential to artistic creation. In the same way, we defend a freedom to bother, indispensable to sexual freedom.—Catherine Deneuve

Every year at this time, we are called to renew our hope that cold indifference and smug complacency can be overcome by a humble and gentle love powerful enough to inspire wise men, shepherds and even angels. —EJ Dionne   When one dines with wolves it is moot whether one is the guest or entree.—Trevanian

People will just believe you. You just tell them and they believe you.—Donald Trump

The best way to tell a certain kind of story, Mendelsohn says of Homer but knowing that it applies also to what he has written, is to move not straight ahead but in wide and history-laden circles.—Adam Nicholson, reviewing An Odyssey, a Father, a Son, and an Epic by Daniel Mendelsohn

Trump is 71; Murdoch is 86, and the median age of a prime-time Fox News viewer is 68. Anyone can see where this is going. The grim reaper has become a Democratic poll watcher.—Richard Cohen, WaPo

Like Jordan Baker, people with self-respect have the courage of their mistakes. They know the price of things.—Joan Didion

brief, people with self-respect exhibit a certain toughness, a kind of moral nerve; they display what was once called character, a quality which, although approved in the abstract, sometimes loses ground to other, more instantly negotiable virtues.—Joan Didion

After the hurricane the city became a mecca for slumlords, spiritual healers and lawyers.—Jeff Goodell, describing the future of Miami

Poetry takes care of itself. All art does — that is paramount. In a survival race, I'm quite sure poetry will long outlast reality TV and Twitter.—Robert Pinsky

Holding onto anger is like drinking poison and expecting the other person to die.—Bert Ghezzi

I can write better than anybody who can write faster, and I can write faster than anybody who can write better.— A.J. Liebling

Brave men are all vertebrates. They have their softness on the surface and their toughness in the middle. But these modern cowards are all crustaceans; their hardness is all on the cover, and their softness is inside.—G.K. Chesterton.

It is better to go skiing and think of God, than go to church and think of sport.—Fridtjof Nansen, Norwegian explorer and refugee activist

You will be flogged for being right and flogged for being wrong, and it hurts both ways-but it doesn't hurt as much when you're right.—Hunter S. Thompson

If a cluttered desk is a sign of a cluttered mind, of what then, is an empty desk a sign?—Albert Einstein

Write only if you cannot live without writing. Write only what you alone can write.— Elie Wiesel

There is divine beauty in learning... To learn means to accept the postulate that life did not begin at my birth. Others have been here before me, and I walk in their footsteps. The books I have read were composed by generations of fathers and sons, mothers and daughters, teachers and disciples. I am the sum total of their experiences, their quests. And so are you.— Elie Wiesel

Human suffering anywhere concerns men and women everywhere.— Elie Wiesel

There may be times when we are powerless to prevent injustice, but there must never be a time when we fail to protest.— Elie Wiesel

The opposite of love is not hate, it's indifference. The opposite of art is not ugliness, it's indifference. The opposite of faith is not heresy, it's indifference. And the opposite of life is not death, it's indifference.— Elie Wiesel

Very often in today's political life we lack the capacity to see one another as fully human, as more than dreams and dots. Often, too, these refusals of sympathy are aided and abetted by an excessive reliance on technical way of modeling human behavior.—Martha Nussbaum in Poetic Justice, the Literary Imagination and Public Life.

Those only are happy who have their minds fixed on some object other than their own happiness; on the happiness of others, on the improvement of mankind, even on some art or pursuit, followed not as a means, but as itself an ideal end.—John Stuart Mill

As students head to school this year, they should consider this: You don't have to change the world or find your one true purpose to lead a meaningful like. A good life is a life of goodness — and that's something anyone can aspire to, no matter their dreams or circumstances.;—Emily Esfahani Smith

Until we have been tested, there is no sense in boasting of our goodness; afterward, there is no need.—Timothy Snyder

We know ourselves only insofar as we have been tested.—Polish Nobel Prize-winning poet, Wislawa Szymborska

On the horizon lay sullen layers of pink and orange, topped by a thick layer of milky clouds.—Mark White

"Art" is short for "artifact", referring to what is left over after the important process is done....—Robert Seven

Inspiration is for amateurs.—Chuck Close

People the world over have always been more impressed by the power of our example than by the example of our power.—Bill Clinton

The most we can do is to write — intelligently, creatively, evocatively — about what it is like living in the world at this time.—Oliver Sachs

The mystic chords of memory, stretching from every battle-field, and patriot grave, to every living heart and hearthstone, all over this broad land, will yet swell the chorus of the Union, when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature.—Abraham Lincoln, First Inaugural

Without uncertainty, there can be no faith. Without stress, there can be no hope. And without taking risks, there can be no true love.—Richard Koch, paraphrasing Anne Dufourmantelle

Noting that bravery is not the absence of fear but the intimacy with fear...When we really begin to do this, we're going to be continually humbled. There's not going to be much room for the arrogance that holding on to ideals can bring....the kinds of discoveries that are made through practice have nothing to do with believing in anything. They have much more to do with having the courage to die, the courage to die continually.—Pema Chödrön

Poetry, to me, is what is right in front of you every day that you fail to see.—Todd Heisler, NYT Photographer

It was now time for me, therefore, to go and hold a little talk with...all those respectable old blockheads, who still, in this intangibility and mistiness of affairs, kept a death-grip on one or two ideas which had not come into vogue since yesterday-morning.—Nathanial Hawthorne

When I finally caught up with Abraham Trahearne, he was drinking beer with an alcoholic bulldog named Fireball Roberts in a ramshackle joint just outside of Sonoma, California, drinking the heart right out of a fine spring afternoon.—James Crumley, opening lines of "The Last Good Kiss"

[The lantern flickers,  Dances. Chilly gusts cannot Put out its small flame.]

What moves you most in a work of literature? The writing itself. I'm always moved by beautiful writing, by someone who catches the music and the poetry of a moment. It doesn't really matter to me what the subject is, or even what happens, just that it's beautifully done.—Don Winslow

Koons linked the power of art and leverage. Koons commented as he viewed the piece, ;You have a sense of transcendence taking place here. He eats that spinach and he transforms it into strength. I think that's the art. the spinach is the art. Art can change your life. It can expand your parameters. It can give this vastness to life.—Mihir A Desai

Extreme beauty arouses no sympathy.—Colette, The Last of Chéri, 1926

Fashion is what one wears oneself. What is unfashionable is what other people wear.—Oscar Wilde, An Ideal Husband, 1895

You can't fake quality any more than you can fake a good meal.—William S. Burroughs, The Western Lands, 1987

Life is sometimes sad and often dull, but there are currants in the cake, and here is one of them. —Nancy Mitford, The Pursuit of Love, 1945

Seek the fashion which truly fits and befits you. You will always be in fashion if you are true to yourself, and only if you are true to yourself.—Maya Angelou, Wouldn't Take Nothing for My Journey Now, 1993

You never realize how much of your background is sewn into the lining of your clothes. —Tom Wolfe, The Bonfire of the Vanities, 1987

There's more to being a human being than having your own way.—John Updike, Rabbit at Rest, 1990

Which of us has not some sorrow to dull, or some yoke to cast off?—George Sand, Winter in Majorca, 1855

One must be absolutely modern.—Arthur Rimbaud, A Season in Hell, 1873

Everybody is identical in their secret unspoken belief that way deep down they are different from everyone else.—David Foster Wallace, Infinite Jest, 1996

I wouldn't dream of following fashion . . . how could one be a different person every three months?—Edith Sitwell, from The Last Years of a Rebel, by Elizabeth Salter, 1967

Everybody's youth is a dream, a form of chemical madness.—F. Scott Fitzgerald, The Diamond As Big As the Ritz, 1922

Fashions, being themselves begotten of the desire for change, are quick to change also.—Marcel Proust, Within a Budding Grove, 1919

Here's the problem with being ahead of your time . . . by the time everyone gets around to it, you're bored.—Fran Leibowitz, in Martin Scorsese's documentary about her, Public Speaking, 2010

Dressing up is feminine narcissism in concrete form; it is a uniform and an adornment; by means of it the woman who is deprived of doing anything feels that she expresses what she is.—Simone de Beauvoir, The Second Sex, 1949

Gingham's for the plighted maid; Satin's for the free!—Dorothy Parker, The Satin Dress, 1926

Vain trifles as they seem, clothes have, they say, more important offices than merely to keep us warm. They change our view of the world and the world's view of us. —Virginia Woolf, Orlando, 1925

The greatest lie ever told about love is that it sets you free.—Zadie Smith, On Beauty, 2005

Seek the fashion which truly fits and befits you. You will always be in fashion if you are true to yourself, and only if you are true to yourself.—Maya Angelou, Wouldn't Take Nothing for My Journey Now, 1993

It seems important to me that beginning writers ponder this—that since 1964, I have never had a book, story, or poem rejected that was not later published. If you know what you are doing, eventually you will run into an editor who knows what he/she is doing. It may take years, but never give up.—Joseph Hansen

The unendurable is the beginning of the curve of joy.—Djuna Barnes, Nightwood, 1936

 The heart has its reasons which reason knows not.— Blaise Pascal

All of humanity's problems stem from man's inability to sit quietly in a room alone.— Blaise Pascal, Pensées

A writer can be seen clumsily learning to walk, to tie his necktie, to make love, and to eat his peas of a fork. He appears much alone and determined to instruct himself.— John Cheever

For most writers, it actually takes a lot of hard work and many false starts before they are in a position to extract what is most valuable and interesting from their autobiographies.— Zoë Heller

A human self is made up of stories.— Mohsin Hamid

It may be that the DNA of fiction is, like our own DNA, a double helix, a two-stranded beast. One strand is born of what writers have experienced. The other is born of what writers wish to experience, of the impulse to write in order to know.— Mohsin Hamid

Writing is a chance for the stories that are us to come to terms with their innate fiction. So write what you know. But also know you are being written.— Mohsin Hamid

In comedy, timing and context are everything. Humor doesn't operate in a vacuum.— Robert Mankoff

Marx was a revolutionary and now he's dead. Lenin was a revolutionary and he's dead. I'm not feeling too good myself.— Dinaw Mengestu in All Our Names

Dr. Hackenbush says [Taking a pulse] Either he's dead or my watch has stopped. — Marx Brothers, A Day at the Races

There comes a time when you realize that everything is a dream, and only those things preserved in writing have any possibility of being real.— James Salter

They made love as if it was a violent crime.— James Salter

Nature will be just fine without us. Nature doesn't need people. People need nature. That is why we can't save ourselves without saving nature.— Harrison Ford

The solitary rose of your breath on my cheek...— Frederico Garcia Lorca

Flannery O'Conner had used up all the possibilities for southern stories, the writer said bitterly.— James Salter in All That Is

Some folks don't use the time God gives 'em; that's why they're liable to come up defeated.— Nate Cobb, quoted in Rosengarten's All God's Dangers

A mere 50 years before the Matsugaes had been a sturdy upright Samurai family. No more eking out a frugal existence in the provinces. But in a brief span of time their fortunes had soared. By Kiyoaki's time the first traces of refinement were threatening to take hold on a family that, unlike the court nobility, had enjoyed centuries of immunity to the virus of elegance.— Yukio Mishima, Spring Snow

No man but a blockhead ever wrote, except for money.— Samuel Johnson

There was an advantage in anger. It made him quite incapable of reflection.— Yukio Mishima in Spring Snow

When a true genius appears in the world, you may know him by this sign, that the dunces are all in confederacy against him.— Jonathan Swift   You can assume that if a writer's work has survived for centuries, there are reasons why this is so, explanations that have nothing to do with a conspiracy of academics plotting to resuscitate a zombie army of dead white males.— Francine Prose

We didn't need dialog. We had faces.— Norma Desmond, Silent Film Actress

... learning how to think really means learning how to exercise some control over how and what you think. It means being conscious and aware enough to choose what you pay attention to and to choose how you construct meaning from experience. Because if you cannot exercise this kind of choice in adult life, you will be totally hosed.— David Foster Wallace, commencement address at Kenyon College, 2005

The really important kind of freedom involves attention and awareness and discipline, and being able truly to care about other people and to sacrifice for them over and over in myriad petty, unsexy ways every day.— David Foster Wallace, commencement address at Kenyon College, 2005

You can't be in love unless you've flossed your teeth next to them at least 300 times.— Marisha Pessl

Happiness is a hound dog in the sun. We are not here to be happy, but to experience great and wonderful things.—Samuel Taylor Coleridge

The memory of the heart eliminates the bad and magnifies the good; thanks to this artifice, we are able to bear the past.— Gabriel García Márquez

The past only forms our experience. It should never become our burden.— Tai Chi Master

Imagine Milton enrolling in a graduate program for help with Paradise Lost, or Kafka enduring the seminar in which his classmates inform him that, frankly, they just don't believe the part about the guy waking up one morning to find he's a giant bug.— Prose, Francine. Reading Like a Writer

Make it low-maintenance. ...if you have to think about it regularly, if it's a hassle, you won't execute any plan effectively. So make it mindless; make it habitual. And make it a system. Aristotle said that excellence isn't a singular act but a habit. — James Early, advisor, Motley Fool Income Investor6

A little knowledge is a dangerous thing. Drink deep or taste not the Pierian Spring.— Alexander Pope. The Pierian Spring is the spring of the muses.

The secret of life in three words. Do. Not. Dabble.— James Parker, quoting his uncle in the publishing business

...I should tell you what I think books can't do. They can't carve your convictions about the world. Only life can do that — only relationships, struggle, love, play and work. Books can give you vocabularies and frameworks to help you understand and decide, but life provides exactly the education you need.— David Brooks

We are all of us born in moral stupidity, taking the world as an udder to feed our supreme selves.— George Eliot in Middlemarch

Riding to the premiere with Zeffirelli, he reached across the expanse of his hired car and, patting my knee, said, Scott, this movie is going to be like a knife in your heart. — Scott Spencer speaking of Zeffirelli's movie adaptation of Spencer's novel Endless Love

Love propaganda [claims] the only way someone could be complete in life is if they have someone to cling to and embrace the goofiness of a relationship with.— Steve Pulaski

I would like to die on Mars. Just not on impact.— Elon Musk

Trouble is my business.— Raymond Chandler

It doesn't matter what genre you write in... You want to make a little magic.— James Scott Bell

Dyer says, like most of his writing, is only an inch from life — but all the art is in that inch . . . and the fun to be had within it.— Clancy Martin

The novel maps the ordeal of that history and, if it succeeds, by doing so probes the conscience of the society it depicts.— Philip Roth

Morning after morning for 50 years, I faced the next page defenseless and unprepared. Writing for me was a feat of self-preservation. If I did not do it, I would die. So I did it. Obstinacy, not talent, saved my life.— Philip Roth

The thought of the writer is embedded everywhere in the course of the novel's action. The thought of the writer is figured invisibly in the elaborate pattern — in the newly emerging constellation of imagined things — that is the architecture of the book, what Aristotle called simply the arrangement of the parts, the matter of size and order. The thought of the novel is embodied in the moral focus of the novel. The tool with which the novelist thinks is the scrupulosity of his style.— Philip Roth

The most important thing is having female protagonists. It doesn't matter if they're a villain or a hero. It just matters that their actions have consequences.— Geena Davis

It is the social struggle of the current moment on which a number of these men find themselves impaled. It isn't sufficient, of course, to speak of rage or betrayal — rage and betrayal have a history, like everything else. The novel maps the ordeal of that history and, if it succeeds, by doing so probes the conscience of the society it depicts.— Philip Roth

The fact remains that getting people right is not what living is all about anyway. It's getting them wrong that is living, getting them wrong and wrong and wrong and then, on careful reconsideration, getting them wrong again. That's how we know we're alive—we're wrong. Maybe the best thing would be to forget being right or wrong about people and just go along for the ride. But if you can do that -- well, lucky you.— Philip Roth, American Pastoral

Back in 1960, Philip Roth gave a speech in which he argued that American life was becoming so surreal, so stupefying, so maddening, that it had ceased to be a manageable subject for novelists.— Michiko Kakutani

But to understand that seeing is not just about the other, the accused, but what 'I' bring to the complications— can indeed be quite terrifying, explosive, dangerous.— Carol Lee Lorenzo

The most telling moments are when we are in corners or just about to turn the corner, thinking all is well, when as Chekhov says, ;Life shows its claws.; So if Ms. Jamison paid close attention in a workshop of worth, she'd understand fiction is not about one or the other, but the hinges of change.— Carol Lee Lorenzo

Happy endings mean a strength has been gained, and the characters once again have a fine chance—if they do make the hard choices.— Carol Lee Lorenzo

She made me feel alive, for a little while, in a slightly soiled way.— Benjamin Black in The Black-Eyed-Blonde

It really is something, the first touch between two people, no matter how brief.— Benjamin Black in The Black-Eyed-Blonde

That smile. It's like something she'd set a match to a long time ago and then left to smolder by itself.— Benjamin Black in The Black-Eyed-Blonde

She had a lovely upper lip. Prominent like a baby's, soft looking and a little swollen as if she'd done a lot of kissing lately — and not kissing babies either.— Benjamin Black in The Black-Eyed-Blonde

To be in a constant state of rage, by contrast, is only the other side of piety and pseudoscience, the kind of belief that forms a quick chorus and cannot be disproved. Scroll down your Facebook feed and see if you don't find one ditto after another.— n+1

I've always been fascinated by Bernie's head...You know that type of English bread they call cottage loaf, like two loaves, one on top of the other? That was the shape of Bernie's noodle. Plus, it looked like it was made not of dough, but of some kind of beef that had been pounded into shape with a mallet.— Benjamin Black in The Black-Eyed-Blonde

The frightful presence of death subjects man to bondage and servitude all his life, according to our text. So far as I stand in fear, I stand not in freedom; and I am not free to act as the situation demands, but am bound to act as the pictures and imaginations produced by my fear drive me to act.— Paul Tillich from The Shaking of the Foundations, Chapter 21

A person of deep character has certain qualities—in the realm of intellect, she has permanent convictions about fundamental things; in the realm of emotions, she has a web of unconditional loves; in the realm of action, she has permanent commitments to transcendent projects that cannot be completed in a single lifetime. — David Brooks

A blank piece of paper is God's way of telling us how hard it is to be God.—Sidney Sheldon, the seventh best-selling fiction author ever.

Anne Bancroft's greatest challenge may have been that she stayed married to Mel Brooks for 41 years. She said One evening, I came back late from a difficult rehearsal. Mel had been working at home all day. I was feeling very sorry for myself, and I wailed, "Acting is so hard.' Mel picked up a blank sheet of paper and held it in front of me. "That's what's hard,' he said.—Desai, Mihir. The Wisdom of Finance: Discovering Humanity in the World of Risk and Return.

[Like a doctor, I learned to create from another's suffering my own usefulness, and once you know how to do this, you can never refuse. —Julia Kasdorf]

Live with intention. Walk to the edge. Do what you love. Live as if this is all there is.— Mary Anne Radmacher

If there is no God, our prayers will beam into the blackness of the universe rather than to a caring deity. Then again, who cares?—unknown

Without work, all life goes rotten. But when work is soulless, life stifles and dies.—Albert Camus

They owe nothing to any man, they expect nothing from any man; they acquire the habit of always considering themselves as standing alone, and they are apt to imagine that their whole destiny is in their own hands. Thus not only does democracy make every man forget his ancestors, but it hides his descendants and separates his contemporaries from him; it throws him back forever upon himself alone and threatens in the end to confine him entirely within the solitude of his own heart.—Alexis de Tocqueville

 Most of the power in the world is held by old men and young women.—Yangsze Choo

Being loved gives strength. Loving gives you courage.—Lao Tsu

Courage doesn't always roar. Sometimes courage is the little voice at the end of the day that says I'll try again tomorrow.— Mary Anne Radmacher

To be famous, in fact, one has only to kill one's landlady.—Albert Camus

Men must live and create. Live to the point of tears.—Albert Camus

Glory consists of the ability to love without measure.— Albert Camus

Writing about the history of France has the elements of a love affair with an irresistible woman; inspiring in her beauty, often agonising and maddening, but always exciting, and from whom one escapes only to return again.—Horne, Alistair.

All great deeds and all great thoughts have a ridiculous beginning. Great works are often born on a street corner or in a restaurant's revolving door.—Albert Camus

;It's essentially what Dr. Watson does for Sherlock Holmes: By reacquainting the head with the heart, we science writers tell the story of the frustrations, false starts, triumphs and breakthroughs that lead to the solution — or, in many cases, to even more questions.;— Michelle Nijhuis

Contradiction intrinsically creates suspense. The ultimate effect\: We never know exactly which aspect of the personality will assert itself in any given situation.— David Corbett

Both secrets and contradictions are useful in characterization because they automatically arouse our curiosity. But by hinting toward an interior within the exterior, by suggesting something concealed beneath what's displayed, they also conjure that mysterious illusion known as depth.— David Corbett

To read a novel is a difficult and complex art.— Virginia Woolf

I can't write without a reader. It's precisely like a kiss — you can't do it alone.— John Cheever

Boys are not taught to value themselves as fully human, but only as conquerors of everything — women, the workplace, the world. And men who are incapable of valuing their own humanity are incapable of fully valuing ... love.— Charles Blow, NYT, 2014

To be relevant, ask yourself: Who do I love? What do I love? What am I really good at doing? What do I have to say?— modified from Matt Cutts, Google programmer on Search Engine Optimization

When I used to paint, I was always impressed by how I would be transported to some floaty, nirvana-like state, only to wonder six hours later where all the time had gone. Not so with writing, which takes place in the left brain, where it's stuck in an airless waiting room suffocating with all the other poorly dressed, most anal-retentive and under-loved super powers we rely on for most of life's homework: organizing, structuring, analysis, logic, math, science.— Merrill Markoe

The absurd does not liberate; it binds. It does not authorize all actions. Everything is permitted does not mean that nothing is forbidden.— Albert Camus, The Myth of Sisyphus

But — tell me — black and white, may one use them or not? Are they forbidden fruit? I think not. Frans Hals must have had twenty-seven blacks. — Vincent Van Gogh in letter to his brother, Theo

All art is autobiographical. The pearl is the oyster's autobiography.— Fredrico Fellini

I used to be disgusted, but now I try to be amused.— Elvis Costello

Our business in life is not to succeed, but to continue to fail in good spirits.— Robert Louis Stevenson

You cannot run away from weakness; you must some time fight it out or perish; and if that be so, why not now, and where you stand?— Robert Louis Stevenson

Life is not a matter of holding good cards, but of playing a poor hand well.— Robert Louis Stevenson

You can read Kant by yourself if you want to, but you must share a joke with somebody else.— Robert Louis Stevenson

Even if the doctor does not give you a year, even if he hesitates about a month, make one brave push and see what can be accomplished in a week.— Robert Louis Stevenson

So long as we love, we serve; so long as we are loved by others, I should say that we are almost indispensable; and no man is useless while he has a friend.— Robert Louis Stevenson

In anything fit to be called by the name of reading, the process itself should be absorbing and voluptuous; we should gloat over a book, be rapt clean out of ourselves, and rise from the perusal, our mind filled with the busiest, kaleidoscopic dance of images, incapable of sleep or of continuous thought.— Robert Louis Stevenson

The words, if the book be eloquent, should run thenceforward in our ears like the noise of breakers, and the story, if it be a story, repeat itself in a thousand coloured pictures to the eye.— Robert Louis Stevenson

The difficulty of literature is not to write, but to write what you mean; not to affect your reader, but to affect him precisely as you wish.— Robert Louis Stevenson

For God's sake give me the young man who has brains enough to make a fool of himself!—unknown

Age may have one side, but assuredly Youth has the other. There is nothing more certain than that both are right, except perhaps that both are wrong. Let them agree to differ; for who knows but what agreeing to differ may not be a form of agreement rather than a form of difference? — Robert Louis Stevenson

In Crabbed Age and Youth,  Writers should find out where joy resides and give it a voice. Every bright word or picture is a piece of pleasure set afloat. The reader catches it, and he goes on his way rejoicing. It's the business of art to send him that way as often as possible. I have to believe that every heart that has beat strongly and cheerfully has left a hopeful impulse behind it in the world. If I cannot believe that, then why should I go on? Why should anyone go on?—Robert Louis Stevenson

And I have no idea what I have said, and I have no idea what I ought to have said, and I am a total ass, but my heart is in the right place, and I am, my dear Henry James, yours,...— Robert Louis Stevenson

Just don't forget irony. It's the entry ticket to humanity.— Johannes Fest preparing his children to live under the Nazis in Germany

Do something brave and stupid so people will think you get laid sometimes.— James Elroy

But as the creative writing industry expands, the affiliation becomes ever stronger. It also becomes more maligned. The MFA has many detractors, and many of them greatly overstate their case, harking back to a time when every writer was a wine-chugging Hemingway firing a homemade rifle at a rabid shark from the back of a speeding ambulance.— Chad Harbach

Another is that the old Hollywood mantra— nobody knows anything— holds true for books as well.— Chad Harbach

A wonderful fact to reflect upon, that every human creature is constituted to be that profound secret and mystery to every other.— Charles Dickens

A solemn consideration, when I enter a great city by night, that every one of those darkly clustered houses encloses its own secret; that every room in every one of them encloses its own secret; that every beating heart in the hundreds of thousands of breasts there, is, in some of its imaginings, a secret to the heart nearest it!— Charles Dickens

Greatness of soul is not so much pressing upward and forward as knowing how to set oneself in order and circumscribe oneself.— Michel de Montaigne

A man of genius has been seldom ruined but by himself. ... Read over your compositions and wherever you meet with a passage which you think is particularly fine, strike it out.— Samuel Johnson

Whoever desires for his writings or himself, what none can reasonably condemn, the favor of mankind, must add grace to strength, and make his thoughts agreeable as well as useful.— Samuel Johnson

Like e.e. cummings said, "Damn everything but the circus."—Tom Waits

Have a conversation! Try to spread the fucking light.—Ariana Grande

Style in painting is the same as in writing, a power over materials, whether words or colors, by which conceptions or sentiments are conveyed.— Sir Joshua Reynolds

I shall never envy the honors which wit and learning obtain in any other cause, if I can be numbered among the writers who have given ardor to virtue and confidence to truth.— Samuel Johnson

You cannot learn to write drama without writing plays, putting them in front of an audience, and getting humiliated.—David Mamet

Wounding the vainglorious is a pleasing pastime in itself and contributes to their demoralization.—Howard Jacobsen

Fire enough salvos of comedy and their [right-wing demagogues] solemn edifices start to crumble. It might be a slow process, but it is at least the beginning.—Howard Jacobsen

Derision is a societal necessity. In an age of conformity and populist hysteria, it creates a climate of skepticism and distrust of authority.—Howard Jacobsen

Meaning emerges, in a drama, suspensefully, out of the interplay of forces, from the collision of voices. There is no such thing, in art, as non-contingent truth.—Howard Jacobsen in a review of the Public Theater's Julius Caesar in the park.

Telling the truth in fiction can mean one of three things. Saying that which is factually correct, a trivial kind of truth, though a kind central to works of verisimilitude; saying that which, by virtue of tone and coherence, does not feel like lying, a more important kind of truth; and discovering and affirming moral truth about human existence — the highest truth of art.— John Gardner, The Art of Fiction (Vintage, p 129)

In popular fiction, said Mr. Kidd, one of the researchers, really the author is in control, and the reader has a more passive role. In literary fiction, like Dostoyevsky, there is no single, overarching authorial voice, he said. Each character presents a different version of reality, and they aren't necessarily reliable. You have to participate as a reader in this dialectic, which is really something you have to do in real life.— Pam Belluck

I know how you're feeling, I read Chekhov.— e! Science News Blog, 10/4/2013

I will vote. I will fight for all of us. It's a big charge and a big responisibiolity for our generation. We are going to be loud and recognized and influential.—student at Bard College, New York

If a writer of prose knows enough of what he is writing about he may omit things that he knows and the reader, if the writer is writing truly enough, will have a feeling of those things as strongly as though the writer had stated them. The dignity of movement of an ice-berg is due to only one-eighth of it being above water. A writer who omits things because he does not know them only makes hollow places in his writing.—Ernest Hemingway in Death in the Afternoon

They shared that sense of sanctuary that is the essence of love.— John Cheever

A prerequisite to empathy is simply paying attention to the person in pain.— Daniel Goleman

There is only the trying. The rest is not our business.— TS Eliot

People forget years and remember moments.—Ann Beattie

Wisdom is for statues. Humor uncaps our inhibitions, unleashes our energies, seals friendships, patches hurts. Laughing is probably the most alive you can be.— James Wolcott

Faulkner liked to work in the library, and since the library door had no lock, he would remove the doorknob and take it with him.— Mason Currey

I developed the kind of self-hypnosis that many athletes and artists use in order to endure or simply maintain concentration. The heart rate slows. For a while a sort of peace washes through the body as you relax beyond your initial limits.— Tim Winton

As soon as I am awake, I remember my duty, and like a brisk mariner I give the lash to indolence and bounce up with as much vivacity as if a pretty girl, amorous and willing, were waiting for me.— James Boswell, Biographer to Dr. Johnson. Boswell did nothing of the sort.

I don't think this experiment needs to prove that literature can be good for you. Sometimes, literature can actually be dangerous, if you take it seriously.— Arnon Grunberg

Even that most recognizable of anatomical parts, the human heart, does not look the same in every body. Yes, the poets were right: Everyone's heart really is different.— Bill Hayes

Millions are to be grabbed out here, and your only competition is idiots. Don't let this get around.— Herman J. Mankiewiczto, writing from Hollywood to Ben Hecht

Those who have a why to live, can bear with almost any how.— Viktor E. Frankl, Man's Search for Meaning

Ultimately, man should not ask what the meaning of his life is, but rather must recognize that it is he who is asked. In a word, each man is questioned by life; and he can only answer to life by answering for his own life; to life he can only respond by being responsible.— Viktor E. Frankl, Man's Search for Meaning He was a scholar and yet knew that one could learn more from the heart than from the mind.— Elif Shafak

Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure.— Marianne Williamson

It is our light, not our darkness that most frightens us. We ask ourselves, Who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous, talented, and fabulous? Actually, who are you not to be?— Marianne Williamson

Your playing small does not serve the world.— Marianne Williamson, often misattributed to Nelson Mandela

There is nothing enlightened about shrinking so that other people will not feel insecure around you. We are all meant to shine, as children do. We were born to make manifest the glory of God that is within us. It is not just in some of us; it is in everyone and as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give others permission to do the same. As we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates others.— Marianne Williamson

You should be kissed, and often, by someone who knows how.— Margaret Mitchell

The bitter laugh laughs at that which is not good, it is the ethical laugh. The hollow laugh laughs at that which is not true, it is the intellectual laugh. Not good! Not true! Well well. But the mirthless laugh..., down the snout—Haw!—so. It is the laugh of laughs, the risus purus, the laugh laughing at the laugh, the beholding, the saluting of the highest joke, in a word the laugh that laughs—silence please—at that which is unhappy.—Samuel Beckett— Samuel Beckett, Watt

...the universe has lost its centre overnight, and woken up to find it has countless centres. [In other words, not only does science question dogma but it is also essentially democratising.] The earth is rolling cheerfully around the sun, and the fishwives, merchants, princes, cardinals, and even the Pope are rolling with it.—One of Galileo's lines from Berthold Brecht's play, Life of Galileo. From a review in the Lancet.

Would you rather fight an octopus with a tiger's head or a tiger with octopus arms? ... Not an easy question to answer.— NYT article on Bobby Blue, who leads spelling bees in a Brooklyn bar, August 2, 2013

The United States is the only country on the planet that didn't understand that some things work better when they're small.— Attributed to Tom Braden by Ian McEwan

Chagrin is an illness. I try to master it. I put myself on an envy-free diet, and limit the number of minutes I will allow myself to brood...— Phillip Lopate

The mother of love imitates the shape of Cynthia.— Galileo in coded message to Kepler revealing that Venus has phases like the moon, proving the planets revolve around the sun.

... she used to write historical romances full of rape and adverbs.— Elmore Leonard

I have perplexed many a scholar with my belief that ;the otaku will inherit the earth.;— Daniel White. Otaku are groups of people obsessed with pop culture movements, such as trekkies, or anime fanciers.

[This world of dew is a world of dew, And yet, and yet. ]— Kobayashi Issa

Sometimes it's those things we least understand that deserve our deepest trust. Isn't that what love and wonder tell us, too?— Pico Iyer

I confess: I read fiction to fall in love. And in fiction, as in life, characters don't have to be likable to be lovable.— By Mohsin Hamid

But a good TV series can do what news sound bites can't &ndash; deeply engage many people on a personal level with challenging real-world situations, questions and characters that foster empathy and understanding. Even a bestselling book is unlikely to reach as many people as a television series. Great storytelling in our most mass of mediums can get us to think, consider and care about people, plights and issues which might otherwise seem distant or abstract.— Piper Kerman, author of ;Orange is the new Black

...art is simply inevitable. It was on the wall of a cave in France 30,000 years ago, and it's because we are a species that's driven by narrative. Art is storytelling, and we need to tell stories to pass along ideas and information, and to try and make sense out of all this chaos.— Steven Soderbergh

the universe has lost its centre overnight, and woken up to find it has countless centres. In other words, not only does science question dogma but it is also essentially democratising. The earth is rolling cheerfully around the sun, and the fishwives, merchants, princes, cardinals, and even the Pope are rolling with it.— One of Galileo's lines in Bertolt Brecht's play, Life of Galileo.

Art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.—Pablo Picasso

If you have a really good piece of art and a really good artist, you are altered in some way, and so the experience is transformative and in the minute you're experiencing that piece of art, you're not alone.— Steven Soderbergh

Art, in my view, is a very elegant problem-solving model.— Steven Soderbergh

Cinema is a specificity of vision. It's an approach in which everything matters. It's the polar opposite of generic or arbitrary and the result is as unique as a signature or a fingerprint.— Steven Soderbergh

But you will make the world a better place by putting yourself out there and saying this is my voice, this is my vision&ndash;what's yours?— Jordan Magnani

...when a writer approaches the 20,000-word mark, he knows he is edging out of the country of the short story ... and realizes that he's come or is coming to a really terrible place, an anarchy-ridden literary banana republic called the novella (or, rather too cutesy for my taste, the novelette). Now, artistically speaking, there's nothing at all wrong with the novella. Of course, there's nothing wrong with circus freaks, either, except that you rarely see them outside of the circus.— Stephen King in the Afterwords to Different Seasons, a collection of four novellas.   ..as a writer he has learned from Aristophanes and other models that enlightenment should also be enjoyable.— Saul Bellow

Everybody needs his memories. The keep the wolf of insignificance from the door.— Saul Bellow

There's no such thing as courage. There's only fear. A fear of getting hurt and a fear of dying. That's why the human race has lasted to long.— David Goodes

Aren't our lives a collision of the comic and the uncertain and the terrifying and the mundane?— Adam Johnson

New York makes one think about the collapse of civilization, about Sodom and Gomorrah, the end of the world. The end wouldn't come as a surprise here. Many people bank on it.— Saul Bellow

A writer can change reality, but the reality also changes the writer.— Ludmila Ulitskaya

I don't take any project for which I have no passion. Why would you do that?— Joss Whedon

... any good novel takes us on a journey where we discover, on many levels, truths about ourselves and our world in ways that are, at the same time, unexpected and familiar.— Walter Mosley

In a very good mystery, the detective comes into question and the investigator is forced to face his, or her, own prejudices, expectations and limitations. In a great mystery, we find that the crime being investigated reveals a deeper rot.— Walter Mosley

What's the best thing about writing a book? The meaning it temporarily lends to my existence.— Jonathon Franzen

Language may compose who we are as much as we compose it.— Claire Needell Hollander

The basis for higher-level learning — for philosophy, psychology, literature, even political science — is the emotions and impulses people feel every day.— Claire Needell Hollander

A writer who waits for ideal conditions under which to work will die without putting a word on paper.— E. B. White

Mr. Banks said his first published novel, The Wasp Factory, had been rejected six times before Macmillan released it in 1984. If a nastier, more vicious or distasteful novel appears this spring, I shall be surprised, a review in the British newspaper The Mail on Sunday said. But there is unlikely to be a better one either.

A novel, on the other hand, must be true primarily on a gut level. Facts can become an impediment.— Sally Koslow

In fiction, creativity is the glue that holds the work together, and an author sells herself on the idea that a sense of childish make-believe will pull her through. In nonfiction, curiosity becomes the cement.— Sally Koslow

Wherever it came from, a great work of found art.— Tag from James Fallows' posting of matchup of of Xi Jinping walking with Barack Obama with Winnie the Pooh walking with Tigger.

Whoever writes about the past is writing fiction.— Steven King

All for ourselves, and nothing for other people, seems, in every age of the world, to have been the vile maxim of the masters of mankind.— Adam Smith observed in 1776

A bad sex scene divorces eroticism from its characters' emotions while a good sex scene brings emotion into the physical act.— Armond White

Writing is so much about the work of noticing. Fiction writing in particular demands intense noticing — studying how the emotional scaffolding of a human is built.— Amy Shearn

I was raised far from Brazzaville, mostly in rural Indiana, by a grandmother who could make a story out of a dozen words and a whistle. Or a bitter laugh and a fingertap. Or a shrug and a sigh.— Laird Hunt

What is a weed? A plant whose virtues have yet to be discovered.— Ralph Waldo Emerson

Though we travel the world over to find the beautiful, we must carry it with us, or we find it not.— Ralph Waldo Emerson

That kinda woman makes the worl' go 'round. Clap you hands, slide, slide. Time after time doesn't she take to time to listen to hour troubles, to make a good connection, to tell you she loves you maadly!:&#8209; Necky Reardon

A life without danger is a waste of oxygen.:&#8209; Tony the Organic Farmer's tee shirt

If you wish to find the unclouded truth, do not concern yourself with right and wrong.— Susan Chen Ming

Tolstoy I'm sure was an incredible jackass, but I still love him. I still love Stevens, I still love Pound. If we didn't read people who were bastards, we'd never read anything. Even the best of us are at least part-time bastards.— Mary Karr

You can read Mailer or Hemingway and see — or at least I do — that what separated them from greater writers (like Chekhov, say) was a certain failing of kindness or compassion or gentleness — an interest in the little guy, i.e., the nonglamorous little guy, a willingness and ability to look at all of their characters with love.— George Saunders

A work of art is something produced by a person, but is not that person — it is of her, but is not her. It's a reach, really — the artist is trying to inhabit, temporarily, a more compact, distilled, efficient, wittier, more true-seeing, precise version of herself — one that she can't replicate in so-called &lsquo;real' life, no matter how hard she tries. That's why she writes: to try and briefly be more than she truly is.— George Saunders

Why waste time learning when ignorance is instantaneous?— Thomas Hobbes

 Nothing is too wonderful to be true.—Michael Faraday

Mik Everett wrote, If a writer falls in love with you, you can never die.

Art does change the world by changing how we see and therefore how we remember.—Tiffany ad

Strangely enough, doubt need not impede action. If you really become friends with your doubt, you can go ahead and take risks... The mistake is in trying to tune out your doubts. Accept them as a necessary (or at least unavoidable) soundtrack.— Phillip Lopate

I suffered two grave accidents in my life. One in which a streetcar knocked me down. The other accident is Diego.— Freida Kahlo, artist and lover of Diego Rivera

It is an interesting paradoxthat doctors, scientists, and engineers are highly regarded in Western societies but that only a minority of people in those societies like reading about science or are even interested in the topic.— John D. Potter, writing in the New England Journal of Medicine

Robin Dunbar of the University of Liverpool in Britain...found that perhaps two thirds of all human speech is gossip, and it will not be surprising if Willett's book [on healthy nutrition] (perhaps like those by Stephen Hawking) sells well but has no impact at all on human behavior or even understanding.— John D. Potter, writing in the New England Journal of Medicine

Creativity is intelligence having fun.— Albert Einstein

Death solves all problems - no man, no problem.— J. V. Stalin, 1918

My basic advice when writing is to get three things happening every two pages. Keep things moving. Think about the book from beginning to end and see the key moments.— Robert Harris

I do like stories. I like the business of telling a story. Having said that, there is no reason why a story shouldn't carry a lot more freight with it.— Robert Harris

You can get at a truth as a novelist in a way that you can't as an historian. I think you can bring things alive, the sense of fear, prickly fear, the sweat, the smell of the place and so on.— Robert Harris

There is a relief that comes with knowing that the categories we once thought were objective turn out to be astoundingly subjective.—Julladonna Park in Learning to Be Ugly in South Korea. posted at https://humanparts.medium.com/learning-to-be-ugly-in-south-korea-ed6a4133ad58

I think a novel is like a car &ndash; and if you buy a car and grow flowers in it, you're forgetting that the car is designed to take you somewhere else.— Robert Harris

I will fuck the shit out of the entire world. In a good way.— Anastasia Volochkova, the ambitious ballerina who was fired from the Bolshoi for being fat. She was 108 pounds at the time. Later she was implicated in the plot to throw acid in the face of the Artistic Director who fired her.

Any time not spent on love is wasted.— Torquato Tasso, the bipolar writer appointed as First Vatican Poet Laureate by Pope Clement VIII.

The comfort of the rich is dependent on an abundant supply of the poor.— Voltaire

We weren't crime detectives or anything, but we'ed been in the game long enough to know the kind of mayhem that came from the font of love.— Adam Johnson in The Orphan Master's Son

Love and scandal are the best sweeteners of tea.— Henry Fielding

It never gets easier to write.:Louise Gl&uuml;ck

I had done everything I could do at the moment with poems operating on a vertical axis of transcendence and grief.:Louise Gl&uuml;ck

The Blues is a form of American music that chronicles the pain caused by poor decision making.— Adam Johnson attributed to Kim Il Jun in The Orphan Master's Son

Every happy man should have an unhappy man in his closet.— Checkov

The writer can choose what he writes about, but he cannot choose what he is able to make live.— Flannery O'Connor

...her hair in sweet disarray, backlit by a moon the color of honey...— George Saunders

...her hair in sweet dishabille, backlit by a moon the color of honey...—improved on George Saunders

Family. It's not perfect. Sometimes it's damn hard. But I look after her and and she squeals with delight when I come home, and the sum total of sadness in the world is less than it would have been.— George Saunders

Your life can suddenly blossom into something wonderful. I can happen. It happened to me.— George Saunders

A novel is just a story that hasn't yet discovered a way to be brief.— George Saunders   Humor is what happens when we're told the truth quicker and more directly than we're used to.— George Saunders

...the writer is not his or her work...— Matthew Specktor

My incompetence, as I hashed out a first draft, was staggering.— Matthew Specktor

Interviewer: What's the best thing about writing a book? Jonathon Franzen: The meaning it temporarily lends to my existence.

Clutter is the disease of American writing. We are a society strangling in unnecessary words, circular constructions, pompous frills and meaningless jargon.— William Zinsser

If you wish to find the unclouded truth, do not concern yourself with right and wrong.—Shen Chen from Shen Chen Ming

...the book's success will be proportional to the extent its cultural strangeness dissolves in the reading. We call this universality.— Amit Masmudar

Writing alters, reshuffles, intrudes on everything. As small a thing as a shifty adverb, or an adjective with attitude, or just a trivial little comma is enough to reconfigure the past.— André Aciman

And maybe this is why we write. We want a second chance, we want the other version of our life, the one that thrills us, the one that happened to the people we really are, not to those we just happened to be once.— André Aciman

No man is lonely while eating spaghetti.— Christopher Morley

If the collected works of Shakespeare can't prevent genocide then really, what is it for? Shouldn't we be spending the time and resources alleviating suffering and helping other people instead of going to the movies and plays and art installations? When we did Ocean's Thirteen, the casino set used $60,000 of electricity every week. How do you justify that?— Steven Soderbergh

Nobody's ever been convinced by being made to feel stupid.—Abe Streep

[50 years is a long time. Not if you're looking back at them.— Issac Asimov]

;And the thing is, it is a book: That's what a book is: a failed attempt that, its failure notwithstanding, is sincere and hard-worked and expunged of as much falseness as he could manage, given his limited abilities, and has thus been imbued with a sort of purity.;— George Saunders

;Information: King dies, queen dies. Story: King dies, queen dies of grief.;—old saying of newspaper writers

Television, from the surface on down, is about desire. Fictionally speaking, desire is the sugar in human food.—Unknown

If you lose your sense of awe, or if you lose your sense of the ridiculous, you've fallen into a terrible pit. The only thing that's worse is never to have had either.— Ferrol Sams, Rural Georgia doctor turned novelist in middle age

Blood alone can turn the wheels of history.—Benito Mussolini

A love story can never be accurately reported, only imagined. It is all dreams and invention.— Joan Wickersham

Sitting by yourself, forcing the swirl of thoughts into a linear, systematic journey forward — it makes you smarter. It's like a pastry bag, literacy is. It presses you into one clear line.— Margaret Edson

Ignorance may be bliss, but it is not a very noble goal.— Margaret Edson

You're young because you create. Forty is not the new thirty. Thirty is not the new twenty. Creation is the new youth.— Will.I.Am, Director of Creative Innovation at Intel

Start with a mustard seed of irrelevant fact. Rutherford Hayes's wife, Lucy, was the first American president's wife to be referred to as the first lady. Scribble this on a scrap of paper and present it to Karen Russell [the short short author]...— Joy Williams

... wars between peoples with different standards of civilization does more to barbarize the civilized than to civilize the barbarous.— Sven Lindqvist

The doctor of the future will give no medicine, but will interest her or his patients in the care of the human frame, in a proper diet, and in the cause and prevention of disease.— Attributed to Thomas Edison

Facts at times become the dire enemies of truth.— Amos Oz

I was miserable of course, for I thought that's how poetry worked. You digested experience and shat literature.—William Matthews from Mingus at the Showplace

It struck me that if I had to choose between being happy and writing poetry, I'd choose to be happy. ;Don't worry,; she said, ;You don't have that choice.;— Mary Karr in Lit, a Memoir

For every complex problem there is an answer that is clear, simple, and wrong.— H. L. Mencken

If there's no God, who's that laughing at us?— Dostoyevsky

Either the wallpaper goes, or I do.— Reportedly the last words of Oscar Wilde

Dying is easy. Comedy is hard.— George Bernard Shaw

The road to Lourdes is littered with crutches, but not one wooden leg.—Emile Zola

The inclination to learn from life itself and to make the conditions of life such that all will learn in the process of living is the finest product of schooling.— John Dewey

Higher education's highest purpose is to give all citizens the opportunity to find large and human significance in their lives and work.— Michael Roth

Dogs and philosophers do the greatest good and get the fewest rewards.— Diogenes

There are few things that are incapable of being represented by a fiction.— Hobbes, The Leviathan

Above all else, language should be generous and liberating, and these writers remind us of the pure pleasure to be found in the free play and musicality of words. Their sentences sing rather than grumble or shout, and we are all the richer for them.— Ben Masters

Incipit vita nova. [A new life begins.]— Dante

Ridicule is the only weapon which can be used against unintelligible propositions.— Thomas Jefferson

But you must journey down another road if you hope to leave this wilderness.— Dante in The Inferno

...how easily the learned give up the evidence of their senses to preserve the coherence of ideas in their imagination.— Adam Smith

Truth is a habit of integrity, not a strategy of politics.—George McGovern

We all need to devote more time and energy to sex, and adding romance and fun would definitely help.— Durex condom company website.

I'm motivated by the power of cognitive laziness.— David Brooks

I don't belabor the first line of my plays. I mean, I belabor every line I've ever written.— Francine Volpe

...audiences don't know what to laugh at until you establish that world for them.— Theresa Rebeck

Everything should be made as simple as possible, but no simpler.— Albert Einstein

By indignities men come to dignities.— Francis Bacon

In novels and movies, it's a powerful narrative; the problems of three little people, playing out against a charged backdrop. Casablanca. Gone With the Wind. The Year of Living Dangerously. Broadcast News. L.A. Confidential.— Maureen Dowd, NYT 2012

Scarlett O'Hara was not beautiful, but men seldom realized it when caught by her charm.— Margaret Mitchell, Opening line of Gone with the Wind

Don't tell the story. Be the story.— Ron Suskind

All respects to heaven, I like it here.—Colum McCann in Let the Great World Spin

In a world buffeted by change, faced daily with new threats to survival, the only way to conserve is by innovating.— Peter Drucker

If you stand in the same river too long after a while even the banks will trickle past you.— Colum McCann in Let the Great World Spin

The repeated lies become history, but that doesn't mean they become the truth.:Colum McCann

The person we meet in the beginning is different from the person we meet at the end.— Colum McCann in Let the Great World Spin

We couldn't always see this in our own lives, but a writer like my father revealed a shape and movement amid it all, layers, meaning, perspective, joy, because he paid such careful attention, and paying attention is about the biggest redemption there is.— Anne Lamott

We might say that if people didn't walk, they wouldn't recognize dancing when they saw it.— Michael Erard writing on writing in NYT, 2012

...unfortunately I awoke this morning with collywobbles, and had to take a small dose of laudanum with the usual consequences of dry throat, intoxicated legs, partial madness and total imbecility...;— Robert Louis Stevenson, Vailima Letters, 1890-1894

Don't tell me the moon is shining; show me the glint of light on broken glass.— paraphrase of advice from Russian writer Anton Chekhov

...But of course it wasn't the end of the world: it was just the end of them.;—James Atlas on the eruption of Mount Vesuvius

I have tried to keep diaries before but they didn't work out because of the necessity to be honest.— John Steinbeck

Now when I write, I think, ;Hello my sweet wonderful daughter! When you were tiny, this was our world.— Ian Williams

A relationship is like a shark. It has to constantly move forward or it dies.— Woody Allen

Discover something new every day.— James Still

Badges? We don't need no stinking badges.— Treasure of Sierra Madre

The thought that a God does not exist doesn't terrify me, but the thought that God exists does.— Diderot [paraphrase]

The writer's joy is the thought that we can become emotion, the emotion that can wholly become a thought.— Thomas Mann

... all the good, simple people in his novels ... are what he wanted to have been, and his villains were what he was.— Dostoyevsky on a conversation with Charles Dickens

Flight from the world ... can always be justified as long as reality is not ignored but acknowledged as the thing that must be escaped.— Hannah Arendt in Men in Dark Times

A man who has enough to live on, if he knew how to stay with pleasure at home, would not leave it to go to sea or to besiege a town.— Blaise Pascal in Pensées

For things to remain the same, everything must change.— Di Lampedusa

Zombies seem to be just about the only Americans these days who actually want brains.—ACW, blogging in the NYT, 2012

A comic is someone who tells funny stories. A comedian tells a story and shows you how it is funny.— unknown

For me, a comedian reveals the absurdity everywhere and so shows us how silly we all really are.— Janna Nelson, 2012

You don't know how strong you are until being strong is the only choice you have.— Unknown

[Google] creates as much data in two days — roughly 5 exabytes — as the world produced from the dawn of humanity until 2003...— Pamela Harbour paraphrasing Eric Schmidt

Multitasking is a persistent myth. What we really do is shift our attention rapidly from task to task ... we sacrifice the quality of our attention.— Maria Konnikova

...they should not look back, as Satchel Paige said, because something might be gaining on them—the future.—Timothy Eagan

In the depth of winter, I finally learned that within me there lay an invincible summer.— Albert Camus

You don't have to have any money to make a difference; you can pick up trash walking down the street, and I do that all the time.— Ted Turner, who donated more than a billion dollars to the United Nations to fight poverty

Let me tell you a great secret, my friend. Don't wait for the last judgement. It takes place every day.—Albert Camus

As W. H. Auden said, The aim of writing poetry is to enable readers a little better to enjoy life or a little better to endure it.

In the late 19th century, the great German mathematician Georg Cantor took on infinity... Cantor died depressed and impoverished, but today his set theory is a flourishing branch of mathematics relevant to the study of large, chaotic systems.:Natalie Angier

[The answers to these questions are the litmus paper. Apply them and their answer will tell you is the scene is dramatic or not. 1. Who wants what? 2. What happens if they don't get it? 3. Why now?— David Mamet]

Frankly, there isn't anybody you can't learn to love once you know their story.— Mr. Rogers on TV always carried this message from a social worker in his wallet.

Drama is anticipation linked to uncertainty.— William Archer, British Playwright

The past isn't dead. It isn't even the past.— William Faulkner

Manners are of more importance than laws. Manners are what vex or soothe, corrupt or purify, exalt or debase, barbarize or refine us, by a constant, steady, uniform, insensible operation, like that of the air we breathe in.— Edmund Burke

A man and a woman cannot live together without having against each other a kind of everlasting joke. Each has discovered that the other is a fool, but a great fool. This largeness, this grossness and gorgeousness of folly is the thing which we all find about those with whom we are in intimate contact; and it is the one enduring basis of affection, and even of respect.— G. K. Chesterton

It is not the man who has too little, but the man who craves ever more, who is poor.— Seneca

Hacking is fundamentally about refusing to be intimidated or cowed into submission by any technology...what is critical is that the technologies be in our hands rather than out of our control.— Peter Ludlow

Life will not necessarily always be like this. Your life could suddenly blossom into something wonderful. It can happen. It happened to me.— George Saunders

Science is built up of facts, as a house is built of stones; but an accumulation of facts is no more a science than a heap of stones is a house.— Henri Poincare

Keep in mind that when public figures get in trouble for something they said, it is usually not because they misspoke, but because they accidentally told the truth.— David Carr

We have too many authors who are not writers...we have too many writers who are not yet authors, but deserve to be.— Timothy Eagan

You really are present, as present as it's possible to be in ink or pixels, in the sentences you make, no matter how plain they are.— Verlyn Klinkenborg

This means you'll need to write, and revise, as if your intentions were invisible and your sentences will be doing all the talking, all on their own. This may be the hardest thing a writer has to learn.— Verlyn Klinkenborg

There are known knowns, there are things we know we know. We also know there are known unknowns, that is to say we know there are some things we do not know. But there are also unknown unknowns, the ones we don't know we don't know.— Donald Rumsfeld

Through humor, you can soften some of the worst blows that life delivers. And once you find laughter, no matter how painful your situation might be, you can survive it.;— Bill Cosby

While up there [in the New York Stock Exchange], I learned a few things. ONE, a number of the traders on the floor of the NYSE wear Crocs with suit pants, shirts, and ties... Q. E. D.: — Sales Pitch for the Motley Fool Million Dollar Portfolio

Readers are correct to sense, in Wallace's elaborate grammars and data fields, not only a generous show but also a tacit petition for our recognition of his intellect. This really annoys some people. (Although if you saw someone juggling 40 flaming torches, would your main response be, Who the hell does he think he is?)— Rivka Galchen reviewing a biography of David Foster Wallace

For between true Science, and erroneous Doctrines, Ignorance is in the middle...Nature it selfe cannot erre.—Thomas Hobbes

Art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.—Pablo Picasso

Action is the foundational key to all success.—Pablo Picasso

All children are artists. The problem is how to remain an artist once he grows up.—Pablo Picasso

We know through painful experience that freedom is never voluntarily given by the oppressor; it must be demanded by the oppressed.— Martin Luther King in Letter from Birmingham Jail

God is really only another artist. He invented the giraffe, the elephant and the cat. He has no real style, He just goes on trying other things.— Pablo Picasso

You can all go to hell. I'm going to Texas.— Davy Crockett

Memory is not a measure of time. It is a measure of meaning.:Steven Tobolowsky

;Every citizen has the right to health care. The state takes care of public health and provide the means of prevention and treatment by building different types of hospitals and medical institutions.;— Constitution of Iraq, 2012

Camus, in particular, cultivated the trench coat with the upturned collar and described himself as a mix of Bogart, Fernandel and a samurai.— Andy Martin, NYT, 2012

The slight that can be conveyed in a glance, in a gracious smile, in a wave of the hand, is often the ne plus ultra of art.— Julia Kavanagh

It is necessary to fall in love...— Camus

A word is no small thing.— Edith Hamilton

...gorgeous tragedy in sceptered pall come sweeping by...—Milton

The half-life of love is forever.— Junot Díaz, New Yorker, 2012.

...you bend to your work, because it feels like hope, like grace—and because you know in your cheater's heart that sometimes a start is all we ever get.— Junot Díaz, New Yorker, 2012

Stories of fallen people who stand out against the conditions that their betters succumb to are always fascinating. It was one of those times in history when saints are no good to you and only scoundrels who are pragmatic can save souls.— Thomas Kinnealy, author of Schindler's Ark

A thing is true at first light and a lie by noon— Earnest Hemingway

Truly, to tell lies is not honorable, but when the truth entails tremendous ruin to speak is dishonorable.— Sophocles

;Nothing lies more than a photograph. An image captured in time provides a static moment, but the moment is decontextualized: the viewer has no idea what happened before the photo was shot, nor what transpires after. An artfully constructed photograph is just that: a construction, a creation of the photographer, the imposition of order within a carefully delineated frame.;— Steven W. Beattie

The world is full of obvious things which nobody by any chance ever observes...— Arthur Conan Doyle, The Hound of the Baskervilles

O body swayed to music, O brightening glance, How can we know the dancer from the dance?— W.B. Yeats, Among School Children

The longer I live, the more I rebel. I'm not going to give in; I want to conquer the World.— Nicos Kazantzakis in Zorba the Greek

Voltaire, when asked on his deathbed by a priest to renounce Satan, famously replied, Now is not the time to be making new enemies.

A Christian is a perfectly free Lord of all, subject to none, and a Christian is a perfectly dutiful servant of all.— Martin Luther

Don't let the little pricks generation gap you.— William Gibson in Neuromancer

We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit.— Aristotle

[For nothing can be sole or whole That has not been rent.— Yeats]

I don't arrive in New York; I leave Paris.— Attributed to Marcel Duchamp

Life begins on the other side of despair.— Jean-Paul Sartre

Like all dreamers, I mistook disenchantment for truth.— Jean-Paul Sartre

Ultimately, I believe that the true collaboration involves the audience, or in the case of the novelist, the reader. These are the people who truly make the characters live.— Molly Ringwald

Life is not what one lived, but what one remembers and how one remembers it in order to recount it.— Gabriel García Márquez in Living to Tell the Tale

Being against evil doesn't make you good.— Ernest Hemingway, Islands in the Stream

Any man's life, told truly, is a novel.— Ernest Hemingway, Death in the Afternoon

All good books are alike in that they are truer than if they had really happened and after you are finished reading one you will feel that all that happened to you and afterwards it all belongs to you...— Ernest Hemingway

We must act out passion before we can feel it.— Jean-Paul Sartre

There are two theories to arguing with a woman. Neither works.—Will Rogers

If you don't learn to laugh at trouble, you won't have anything to laugh at when you're old.—Will Rogers

Never squat on your spurs.—Will Rogers

There are many ways to love boys and men. Or to let them love you.—Lidia Yukanvitch

I have never wished another man's death, but I have read some obituaries with great pleasure.—Mark Twain

A mosaic is a work of great beauty made over many years by two people who combine fragments of their broken hearts.—Adopted from Terry Tempest Williams

I know the world is bruised and bleeding, and though it is important not to ignore its pain, it is also critical to refuse to succumb to its malevolence. Like failure, chaos contains information that can lead to knowledge — even wisdom. Like art.—Toni Morrison

This is precisely the time when artists go to work. There is no time for despair, no place for self-pity, no need for silence, no room for fear. We speak, we write, we do language. That is how civilizations heal.—Toni Morrison

It is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a thought without accepting it.— Aristotle

But all her articles were characterized by humor and honesty, written in a clear, direct, understated style marked by an impeccable sense of when to deploy the punchline.— From an obit of Nora Ephron, Charles McGraw, NYT, 2012

Why do people write books that say it's better to be older than to be younger? It's not better. Even if you have all your marbles, you're constantly reaching for the name of the person you met the day before yesterday.— Nora Ephron

I have not failed. I've just found 10,000 ways that won't work.— Thomas A. Edison

I fear our technology has surpassed our humanity.— Albert Einstein

In those days he was wiser than he is now — he used to frequently take my advice.— Winston Churchill

The banquet is in the first bite.— Michael Pollan

 I'm an old man, and if I should have anything on my conscience it won't be for long.— John Steinbeck

Make a difference about something other than yourselves.— Tony Morrison

Company executives are paid to maximize profits, not to behave ethically. Evidence suggests that they behave as corruptly as they can, within whatever constraints are imposed by law and reputation.— News article in New York Times, 2012

Rather than our current attitude of self pity and gnawing regret, we should adopt Finland and Weinstein's cautious optimism about what lies before us...— K Stepkowitz, New England Journal of Medicine, 2012

But in any vocation there will unavoidably be a certain percentage of your job that is soul-wearying tedium — paperwork, meetings, office politics — and you should probably count yourself lucky if it's under 50 percent.— Tim Kreider

The difference between fact and fiction is like the difference between land and water.— Colm Toibin

Excellence, much labored for by the race of men.— Aristotle

The exercise of vital powers along lines of excellence in a life affording them scope is an old Greek definition of happiness.— Edith Hamilton, The Greek Way

He's delivered what Vladimir Nabokov said a biographer should. Plain facts, no symbol-searching, no jumping at attractive but preposterous conclusions, no Marxist bunkum, no Freudian rot.—Dwight Garner

Everything's a matter of perspective. the sinking of the Titanic was a friggin' miracle to the lobsters in the kitchen.—Adrian McKinty

Even when you were completely wrong about something the journey into your wrongness was always fucking interesting.—Adrian McKinty, I Hear The Sirens on the Street.

The third critical ability, somewhat surprisingly, is storytelling, which has not traditionally been valued by organizations. Charts, graphs and data analysis will continue to be important, but that's exactly what technology does so well. To change people's minds or inspire them to act, tell them a story.—Geoff Colvin, Senior editor, Fortune Magazine

What makes human intelligence different from a chimpanzee or a Neanderthal? For me, it's the ability to tell stories.—Patrick Henry Winston, AI Researcher at MIT

What moves her most in literature is the writer who says: Here I stood! I loved the world enough to write it all down.—Sarah Ruhl

He also possesses an aversion to nostalgia, an admirable quality in a memoirist.—John Swansburg on Michael Ian Black

It can be tough to avoid group-think, which is why my toolkit now includes a mental reminder to channel that shockingly, unfashionably optimistic little girl in the back seat of my car who can find beauty on the dreariest days.—Seth Jayson

Science, like art, music and literature, has the capacity to amaze and excite, dazzle and bewilder. I would argue that it is that aspect of science — its cultural contribution, its humanity — that is perhaps its most important feature.—Lawerence M. Krauss

Whether I shall turn out to be the hero of my own life, or whether that station will be held by anybody else, these pages must show.— Charles Dickins, first sentence of David Copperfield

I now own a library of 900 books, over 700 of which I wrote myself.—Thoreau, after the failure of his first book, A Week on the Concord and Merrimack Rivers.

Making the right decisions, moving forward and achieving your goals (the way you think they should be achieved) almost never happens. Let go of the way you think things should be and accept them as they are. When you accept, you release the energetic blocks that have been holding you back...[and see with] certainty and clarity. Only then will you be able to make the best decision and finally see white from black.—Jessica Tice on 'Decisive moment' Pinterest Board

Thinking should be done beforehand and afterwards&ndash;never while actually taking a photograph. Success depends on the extent of one's general culture, on one's set of values, one's clarity of mind and vivacity. The thing to be feared most is the artificially contrived, the contrary to life.— Henri Cartier-Bresson

China is on the path of rapid modernization and progress, kind of like the U.S. during the golden age of science fiction in the '30s to the '60s. The future in the people's eyes is full of attractions, temptations and hope. But at the same time, it is also full of threats and challenges. That makes for very fertile soil.—Liu Cixin

James Baldwin in The Fire Next Time says that love takes off the masks we fear we cannot live without and know we cannot live within.

Every man carries within himself a world made up of all that he has seen and loved, and it is to this world that he returns, incessantly.—Chateaubriand

In a way, all writing is essay writing, an endless attempt at finding beauty in horror, nobility in want.—Roger Rosenblatt

Eat a live frog first thing in the morning, and nothing worse will happen to you the rest of the day.—Mark Twain

We're surrounded by people who came into this world with these portable little bundles of certainty, these neat foundational texts. They don't have to go rooting around for comforting words. What do we have? What did we get? Nothing. A handful of movies and a few of Dad's jokes.—Daniel White

If you want success, figure out the price, then pay it. It sounds trivial and obvious, but if you unpack the idea it has extraordinary power.—Dilbert creator Scott Adams

My former career life is detailed in Financial Advice Gone Wrong.—Cory Richards in Trading the S&amp;P 500 Index Using the Fundamental Stock Indicator.

Truth is just one man's explanation for what he thinks he understands.—Walter Mosley

You can tell a lot about a person by whom they choose to marry.—old aphorism

We do not want the unity of grief nor do we want the unity of fear. We want the unity of hope, affection and high purpose.—George W Bush, speaking at funeral for five slain policemen in Dallas, 2016

Joan Didion: We tell ourselves stories in order to live.

As far as I know, no one has ever proposed that book clubs or BuzzFeed fill the vacuum left by Partisan Review. Why break these butterflies upon her wheel?—Zo&euml; Heller speaking of Cynthia Ozik's critical reviews

We of the craft are all crazy. Some are affected by gaiety, others by melancholy, but all are more or less touched—Lord Byron

And thus the heart will break, yet brokenly live on.—Lord Byron

My life seemed to be a series of events and accidents. Yet when I look back, I see a pattern.—Benoit Mandelbrot

Genuine tragedies in the world are not conflicts between right and wrong. They are conflicts between two rights.— Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel

Sooner or later life teaches you that you're not the center of the universe, nor quite as talented or good as you thought. It teaches you to care less about what others think and, less self-conscious, to get out of your own way.—David Brooks

Experience, or what we call experience, is not the inventory of our pains, but rather the learned sympathy towards the pain of others.— Juan Gabriel Vásquez

The people in public life we really admire turn experience into graciousness. Those people, I think, see their years as humbling agents.—David Brooks

Eight times more people die going down Everest than going up.

What you get by achieving your goals is not as important as what you become by achieving you goals.—Zig Ziglar

All memories, the neuroscientists say, are actually memories of memory, but usually they don't feel that way.—Jonathan Franzen

Someone who does not know the difference between good and evil is worth nothing.—Miecyslaw Kasprzyk, who in 1942 risked his life and that of his family to hide a Jewish child from the Nazis in Poland in WW II

...when all the ordinary divides and patterns are shattered, people step up to become their brother's keepers. And that purposefulness and connectedness bring joy even amidst death, chaos, fear and loss.—Rebecca Solnit

I want better metaphors. I want better stories. I want more openness. I want better questions. All these things feel like they give us tools that are a little more commensurate with the amazing possibilities and the terrible realities that we face.—Rebecca Solnit

If you want this to be a just world you must do your just work now.—Rev. Angela Denise Davis

The French call dusk the time entre le chien et le loup, between the dog and the wolf...—Rebecca Solnit

Mr. McKibben has described those who favor natural gas as a way to reduce greenhouse emissions as believers in painless environmentalism, the equivalent of losing weight by cutting your hair.

The meaning of life is to help others find the meaning of theirs.—Victor Frankel

Pace. Think of flow of a movie. Write it on sheets of paper. Only then go to the blank computer screen.—Carol Lee Lorenzo

There is no greater bore than perfection.— Ricard Connell, in the classic short story,The Most Dangerous Game

The trouble with him was that he was without imagination. He was quick and alert in the things of life, but only in the things, and not in the significances.—Jack London

A fox knows many things, but a hedgehog one important thing.—Archilochus and an essay by Isiah Berlin

What you make doesn't have to survive forever. Sometimes it can't, for a lot of reasons, at least not the way you originally conceived it. That doesn't mean it's not possible to do something meaningful, something really good.—Douglas Burnham

Perhaps the most intriguing form of idleness is one nearly all of us are intimately familiar with: procrastination. Idleness is difficult to find in a pure state...But procrastination is a different business altogether: It is not only more available, but also more dynamic, just as the procrastinator is a more dramatic figure than the idler, who is as ascetic and immobile as a pillar saint.—Costica Gradatan

If a man will begin with certainties, he shall end in doubts; but if he will be content to begin with doubts, he shall end in certainties.—Francis Bacon

The bedrock of all good pieces of writing is 10 bad drafts. Maybe 20.—Mike Birbiglia

Don't worry about failing. There's a great video where Ira Glass explains that when you start in a new field, your work won't be as good as your taste. It will take years for your taste and the quality of your work to intersect. (If ever!) Failure is essential. There's no substitute for it. It's not just encouraged but required.—Mike Birbiglia

The method of science is the method of bold conjectures and ingenious and severe attempts to refute them.: —Karl Popper

[You say, It's plain to see we're over, And I hate when things are over, When so much is left undone.  And I say, What about Breakfast at Tiffany's? You say, I think I remember the film, And as I recall I think, we both kinda liked it. And I say, Well, that's one thing we've got.]—composed by Todd Pipes, sung by Deep Blue Something

I long for poems of an inner harmony in utter contrast to the chaos in which they exist. Insofar as poetry has a social function it is to awaken sleepers by other means than shock.—Denise Levertov

All the goodness and the heroisms will rise up again, then be cut down again and rise up. It isn't that the evil thing wins—it never will—but that it doesn't die.—John Steinbeck

I know that I am reading a powerful book when everything around me disappears and I am unable to put it down until I finish it. A good book can bring you to another state of consciousness and transport you into different times and spaces. I am always searching for that experience of having the reality of the book overpower the reality of my own life.—Marina Abramovic   This is the paradox of literature, which is also the glory of humanism: the idea that nothing human is alien to any of us, that we all have the power to imagine our way into one another's lives. If the exposure of Elena Ferrante reminds us of that truth, which today we are too inclined to forget, perhaps it will turn out to be justified.—Adam Kirsch

A novel is supposed to be a self-sufficient world, something the writer creates and then sets free; it is not meant to be tethered to its creator, but to transcend her.—Adam Kirsch

Everything's a matter of perspective. the sinking of the Titanic was a friggin' miracle to the lobsters in the kitchen.—Adrian McKinty

Even when you were completely wrong about something the journey into your wrongness was always fucking interesting.—Adrian McKinty, I Hear The Sirens on the Street.

When truth is buried underground it grows, it chokes, it gathers such an explosive force that on the day it bursts out, it blows up everything with it.—Emile Zola

Don't play what's there. Play what's not there.—Miles Davis

Learn as if you were going to live for ever.—Attributed to St Edmund of Abingdon

Truth...never comes into the world but like a bastard, to the ignominy of him that brought her forth.—John

Dancing adrenaline is excitement — it's like, I can't wait to do those steps, I can't wait to have that feeling.—Sara Mearns, ballernina

Chance favors only the prepared mind.—Louis Pasteur

Man masters nature not by force, but by understanding.—Jacob Bronowski

A crucially significant event for Camille Paglia was when an outhouse exploded after she poured too much lime into the latrine. She said, That symbolized everything I would do with my life and work. Excess and extravagance and explosiveness. I would be someone who would look into the latrine of culture, into pornography and crime and psychopathology... and I would drop the bomb into it.—Camille Anna Paglia

There's the chiaroscuro, the way light shows in darkness and it is extremely beautiful and I think it essentializes the experience of being human, to see light and to see light in darkness. It is so much more beautiful in that place. —Emil Ferris

But in the journalistic trinity of get it first, get it right, get it out, the get-it-out part is harder than it sounds.—Stephen Farrell

Question: "I'm 43. Is it too late to become a rapper?" Chance the Rapper: "Some may say it's too soon."

There comes a time when silence is betrayal.—a Vietnam War Protester

Whoever is careless with the truth in small matters cannot be trusted with important matters.—Albert Einstein

An essential aspect of creativity is not being afraid to fail. —Edwin Land

[Tom Wolfe argued... it is the emotions, not the facts, that most engage and excite readers and in the end are the heart of most stories.; He said there are exactly four technical devices needed to get to ;the emotional core of the story.; They are the specific devices, he said, ;that give fiction its absorbing or gripping quality, that make the reader feel present in the scene described and even inside the skin of a particular character.: 1) constructing scenes;  2) dialogue — lots of it;  3) carefully noting social status details — everything from dress and furniture to the infinite status clues of speech, how one talks to superiors or inferiors ... and with what sort of accent and vocabulary and 4) point of view.]— from in the Henry Jamesian sense of putting the reader inside the mind of someone other than the writer.—Writer's Almanac, March, 2, 2017

Art is memory. It is the excavation of so many memories we have had - of our mothers, our best and worst moments, of glorious experiences we have had with friends or films or music or dance or a lovely afternoon on a sloping, green hill.—Martha Graham

No artist is ahead of his time. He is his time; it is just that others are behind the time.— Martha Graham

You have no right to falsify life, ever. That's the cardinal sin of the writer.—Mari Sandoz

Writing is like getting married. One should never commit oneself until one is amazed at one's luck.—Iris Murdoch

All of life is a series of daring adventures from a secure base. If government can create a framework in which people grow up amid healthy families, nurturing schools, thick communities and a secure safety net, then they will have the resources and audacity to thrive in a free global economy and a diversifying skills economy.—David Brooks

Creativity takes courage.—Henri Matisse

He was talking himself into falling in love.—Tad Friend

You can't be funny all of the time. Sometimes there's things to say.——The Smothers Brothers and Simon and Garfunkel

Only connect.—E.M. Forster

When truth is buried underground it grows, it chokes, it gathers such an explosive force that on the day it bursts out, it blows up everything with it.—Emile Zola

Everybody needs beauty as well as bread, places to play in and pray in.—John Muir

It isn't all that subtle. It's all about living in the moment. Period.—Big Sean with Flint Chozen Choir &amp; Starrah

...social media amplifies every big story until it swallows the world.—Farhad Manjoo

The only thing worth writing about is the human heart in conflict with itself.— William Faulkner

...for some, the narrative cake was already baked.——Richard Fausset in a NYT article on corruption in Atlanta city contracting.

You can actually work super hard and give everything you have, and lose. It was the best message for me...The reality is, sometimes, you lose. And you're never too good to lose. You're never too big to lose. You're never too smart to lose. It happens and it happens when it needs to happen.—Beyonce

It is not enough to simply bandage the victims under the wheels of injustice, but jam a spoke into the wheel itself.—Dietrich Bonhoeffer

It is one of the evils of rapid diffusion of news that the sorrows of all the world come to us every morning [because it can become an escape from the works of charity we really can do to those we know.]—CS Lewis

You have to be very fond of men. Very, very fond. You have to be very fond of them to love them. Otherwise they are simply unbearable.—Marguerite Duras

How different would our relationships be, de Botton says, ;if the question we asked on an early date was, How are you crazy? I'm crazy like this, and then understood that the real work of love is not in the falling, but in what comes after?—Alain de Botton

Art is not a mirror held up to reality , but a hammer to change it.—Berthold Brecht.

I want to live other lives. I've never quite believed that one chance is all I get. Writing is my way of making other chances.—Anne Tyler

Writing is...that oddest of anomalies—an intimate letter to a stranger.—Pico Iyer

...easy to read is hard to write ...— C.J. Heck

The hard part is putting one word after another.— Jo Linsdell

You are what you write.— Helvy Tiana Rosa

And if you don't send this to at least 8 people - who cares?

Life is not measured by the number of breaths we take, but by the moments that take our breath away.—attributed to George Carlin

I want to live other lives. I've never quite believed that one chance is all I get. Writing is my way of making other chances.—Anne Tyler

Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world. indeed, it's the only thing that ever has. &ndash; Margaret Mead

Mixing church and politics is like combining horse manure and ice cream. It won't do much damage to the manure, but it sure messes up the ice cream.—Tony Campollo

We don't do it because we know exactly how we're going to use it. We do it because it's clear it's interesting and it might lead somewhere. A lot of the time it doesn't, but many times it leads us somewhere where we had no idea in the beginning. —Tim Cook on Apple's corporate culture

When we are children, and also when we are adults, we learn our deepest truths through myth. Myths don't make a point or propose an argument. They inhabit us deeply and explain to us...how our own lives are connected to the universal sacred realities.—David Brooks

Madness is like intelligence, you know. You can't explain it. Just like intelligence. It comes on you, it fills you, and then you understand it. But when it goes away you can't understand it at all any longer.——from the screenplay of Hiroshima mon amour by Marguerite Duras

At the end of Annie Hall, Woody Allen's character tells a joke about a man whose brother thinks he is a chicken; the man won't turn his brother in to doctors, he says, because I need the eggs.—Eric Kaplan

The most significant creative activities of our or any other human culture -- legal and ethical systems, art and music, science and technology -- were made possible only through the collaborative work of the left and right cerebral hemispheres. These creative acts . . . have changed the world. We might say that human culture is the function of the corpus callosum.—Carl Sagan

Do I contradict myself? Very well, then. I contradict myself, I am large, I contain multitudes.—Walt Whitman

For me, these stories are not the stories of famous people, they're the stories of what we're capable of on our very best days,—Brad Meltzer

Robert Penn Warren's first three novels were unanimously rejected by publishers.—Noah Lumen   ;Possible theme for a memoir: I wasn't surrounded by assholes. I was trapped inside one.—JD Daniels

There may be times when we are powerless to prevent injustice, but there must never bee a time when we fail protest.—Elie Wiesel

War is what happens when language fails.—Margaret Atwood

I love her and it is the beginning of everything.—F. Scott Fitzgerald

You know what class is about, dear? What we do is we brush teeth, we clean teeth every morning. Nothing fancy: We just keep the essentials pure.;—George Balanchine

Only two things are infinite, the universe and man's capacity for stupidity.— Adrian McKinty

In a time of universal deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act.—George Orwell

A man that flies from his fear may find that he has only taken a shortcut to meet it.—J.R.R. Tolkien

The most violent element in society is ignorance.—Emma Goldman

A man's character is his fate. —Heraclitus

All the ills of mankind, all the tragic misfortunes that fill the history books, all the political blunders, all the failures of the great leaders have arisen merely from a lack of skill at dancing.— Moli&egrave;re

But what reality was ever made by realists?—Richard Flanagan

All men are liars. He had only one tongue and more tails than a dog pound.—Richard Flanagan

What we cannot dream, we cannot do.—Richard Flanagan

You build on failure. You use it as a stepping stone. Close the door on the past. You don't try to forget the mistakes, but you don't dwell on it. You don't let it have any of your energy, or any of your time, or any of your space.: —Johnny Cash

Tomorrow is really uncertain...I don't mean that in a professional way, I just mean that you never know. All you have is today. What are you going to do today? And that's all any of us have. I try to guide the Air Force to the future, but I think any of us that [say they] know what will happen tomorrow or next week are kidding ourselves about what it means to be human. We don't have any certainty in life, and I always live my life that way.—Air Force Secretary Heather Wilson on her retirement.

Opportunity is missed by most because because it wears overalls and looks like work.—Thomas Edison

;Good friends, good books, and a sleepy conscience: this is the ideal life.;— Mark Twain

[Democratic socialists like Ocasio-Cortez] want to rebuild your home ... [and] take away your hamburgers. This is what Stalin dreamt about but never achieved.;—Sebastian Gorka, former Trump Official

The universe is made of stories, not of atoms.—Muriel Rukeyser

Go Confidently in the Direction of your Dreams—Live the Life you've Imagined.—Henry David Thoreaux

...there is a path forward. I emerge [from medical school] knowing that my actions matter. That even though I cannot single-handedly sweep away the inequalities of the world, I can still deploy care in real and direct ways. I can find moments to create a gentler, more just world for patients.;—Jennifer Tsai

In the end I possess my birthplace and I am possessed by its language.—Ross MacDonald

Change is inevitable. It's progress that is optional.—Andy Stern

;In truth, it is like this: You cannot imagine...how time can be so still. It hangs. It weighs. And yet there is so little of it.;— Margaret Edson

The dictators of the world say that if you tell a lie often enough, why, people will believe it. Well, if you tell the truth often enough, they'll believe it and go along with you.— Harry Truman

It is amazing what you can accomplish if you don't care who gets the credit.—Harry Truman

Thinking is like loving and dying. Each of us must do it for himself.—Josiah Royce

...Royce argued that if loyalty is the center of the good life, then we should admire those causes, based on mutual affection, that value and enhance other people's loyalty. We should despise those causes, based on a shared animosity, that destroy other people's loyalty. If my loyalty to America does not allow your community's story to be told, or does not allow your community's story to be part of the larger American story, then my loyalty is a domineering, predatory loyalty.;—David Brooks

The old notion that brevity is the essence of wit has succumbed to the modern idea that tedium is the essence of quality.—Russel Baker

Like species, couples die out or evolve.—Marge Piercy

When she kissed him, he melted like a lump of milk chocolate.—Marge Piercy

Love and learning are alike in that both are never wasted.—Hope Jahren in Lab Girl

Michael Hfuhruhurr: The only time we doctors should accept death is when it's caused by our own incompetence.  Dr. Necessiter: Nonsense. If the murder of twelve innocent people can help save one human life, it will have been worth it.—Steve Martin, Man With Two Brains

Did you ever wake up, kiss the person sleeping besides you, and feel glad you are alive? I just did, and apparently will not be allowed to fly on this airline again.—posted on fb Jim Pettus

What will people of the future think of us? Will they say, as Roger Williams said of some of the Massachusetts Indians, we were wolves with the minds of men, that we resigned our humanity?—CP Snow, physicist and novelist, of the atomic bomb program

Hogarth argued for an art that looked not to idealised types but to life in all its gritty, gory glory, and this print could be read as an allegory of that position. Typically for the artist, the line between life and art is shown to be a shaky one.—Skye Sherwin

It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat.—Theodore Roosevelt

A cynical habit of thought and speech, a readiness to criticize work which the critic himself never tries to perform, an intellectual aloofness which will not accept contact with life's realities—all these are marks, not ... of superiority but of weakness.—Theodore Roosevelt

When [the obnoxious] Koenig left the room I felt as though I'd been cured of cancer.—James Ellroy

Be yourself; everyone else is already taken.—Oscar Wilde

To be a fiction writer, you must see yourself down to the bone, to the very marrow, in order to earn the right to speak about the inner lives of others.—Carol Lee Lorenzo

Quickly show disturbance. It's nice if characters slowly realize what's going on.—Carol Lee Lorenzo.

His hair stuck out in all directions, like a quiver of exclamation marks.—Susan Orlean

In the face of so much tragedy, what can one do after the crying ... but laugh?—Jen McDonald

We tell ourselves stories in order to live. . . . We live entirely, especially if we are writers, by the imposition of a narrative line upon disparate images, by the ideas with which we have learned to freeze the shifting phantasmagoria which is our actual experience.—Joan Didion, The White Album, 1979

I write entirely to find out what I'm thinking, what I'm looking at, what I see, and what it means. What I want and what I fear.—Joan Didion, Why I Write, 1976

Robert Frost's famous poem about the two paths diverging in the woods isn't only about the two paths. It also describes how older people go back in memory and impose narrative order on choices that didn't seem so clear at the time.— David Brooks

Steinem's longstanding battle with writer's block — weighs on her ... She's been working for more than a decade on a book about life on the road, and it has resisted all her efforts to get it finished, including four stints at a writers' colony. When asked whether she has any regrets, Steinem says, Well, actually it's not so much what I would have done differently. It's that I would have done it much faster.— Gail Collins

It is the vain hope of middle-class parents that their children will go off to college and later be returned to them economically viable but otherwise unchanged... But, he said, sending kids off to college is a lot like putting them in the witness protection program. If the person who comes out is easily recognizable as the same person who went in, something has gone terribly, dangerously wrong.— Richard Russo

Vigorous writing is concise. A sentence should contain no unnecessary words, a paragraph no unnecessary sentences, for the same reason that a drawing should have no unnecessary lines and a machine no unnecessary parts. This requires not that the writer make all his sentences short, or that he avoid all detail and treat his subjects only in outline, but that every word tell.— Strunk and White, The Elements of Style

As adrenalin and irony coursed through my bloodstream, I gloated on the moral perfection...— James Ellroy in Brown's Requiem, his first novel

The Stone Age didn't end because we ran out of stones.— old saying

Let us cultivate our garden.—Last sentence of Candide by Voltaire

Never wrestle with a pig. You get dirty, and besides, the pig likes it.—George Bernard Shaw

...what I'm looking for—a return to the easygoing guy I was before my world got complicated, the nice guy who took things as they came, and laughed so hard the blues would blow away in the summer wind.—Bill Withers

Time flies over us, but leaves its shadow behind.—Nathaniel Hawthorne

We sometimes remain faithful to a cause merely because its opponents never cease to be insipid.—Nietzsche

Those who dance are considered mad by those who cannot hear the music.—attributed to Nietzsche

The producers of Ch&acirc;teauneuf-du-Pape have historically been known to be fiercely protective of their vineyard properties which is said to have led to the 1954 passing of a municipal decree in the village of Ch&acirc;teauneuf-du-Pape that banned the overhead flying, landing or taking off of flying saucers in the commune. As of 2007, this law has yet to be repealed.—Wikipedia entry on the heavenly Ch&acirc;teauneuf-du-Pape wine.

Much will be gained if we succeed in transforming your hysterical misery into common unhappiness.—Freud

Hopelessness can't live where there is possibility.—Kim Green, Vicissitudes

There are no accidents, no coincidences or chance meetings; there are only small tremors in the earth that remind us we are alive.—Kim Green, Vicissitudes

The plot is highly dynamic and unites sex, crime and history in a pleasantly unobtrusive manner.—from a review of the German TV show "Babylon Berlin."

All good novelists have bad memories. What you remember comes out as journalism, what you forget goes into the compost of the imagination.—Graham Greene

On climbing Mount Everest. As one high lama reflected on the British endeavors in his spiritual autobiography: Some left early to have limbs cut off, the others stubbornly continue to climb...I felt great compassion for them to suffer so much for such meaningless work.—NYT Review of Into the Silence

Prosciutto, the name of the delicious Italian dry ham is composed of the words for ;before; and ;suck; because the salt sucks out the water.

The only way to reduce ugliness in the world is to reduce it in yourself.—Bayard Rustin.

Any writer who knows what he's doing isn't doing very much.—Nelson Algren

"We become merciful," she wrote, "when we behave as the concerned reader of a novel, understanding each person's life as a complex narrative of human effort in a world full of obstacles."—Martha Nussbaum

Freedom is the opportunity to practice self discipline.—unknown

God loveth adverbs, and cares not how good, but how well.—Joseph Hall

"...it's not about how hard you hit. It's about how hard you can get hit, and keep moving forward.—The movie Rocky

If you really want your poem to work, the use of adjectives should be minimal, but you should stuff as much as you can with nouns—even the verbs should suffer...The paper still should be dark with nouns.—Joseph Brodsky, paraphrasing Evgeny Rien

Death is nothing to us. When we exist, death is not; and when death exists, we are not.— Epicurus

And so I learned about the wide gulf that separates the facts from the truth.—Philip Caputo

You are without fault and a beautiful human being. From the depths of my heart and my soul, you have my undying gratitude, for now and always.— Darth Egregious, Java Programmer

The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters.— Title of an etching by the Spanish painter and printmaker Francisco Goya.
